The Apostle Paul presented information that was informative to his audience.
For instance, what he said to Jews in Jerusalem,
differed from what he said to Greeks and Athens.
He wrote, as recorded at 1 Corinthians 9,
to the Jews, I became as a Jew in order to gain Jews.
To those without law, I became as without law.
I have become all things to people of all sorts.
So that I might by all possible means save some.
But I do all things for the sake of the good news.
How can we make our teaching informative to our audience?
First, we should consider what our listeners already know.
For example, if we're speaking to a congregation of mature Christians,
we shouldn't simply repeat basic Bible truths that they've heard before.
Instead, we can help them to look at the topic from a fresh perspective.
Watch the following example.
Is the presentation informative to the audience?
At John chapter 13 verse 35, Jesus explained how to identify His followers.
He said, by this all will know that you are My disciples
if you have love among yourselves.
That expression among yourselves shows that all true Christians
would be together in one group or organization.
And this organization would be identified by the love its members have for one another.
Isn't it common during war for people of the same religion
but who live in the opposing countries to slaughter one another?
Is there any religion in which people truly view fellow worshipers
from another neighborhood, city or country as their brother?
Was that informative?
If the speaker was talking to unbelieving relatives or workmates,
then yes, it was informative.
But let's say that he was giving a talk to mature Christians.
If he spent a lot of time presenting basic information that the audience already knew,
he might quickly lose their attention.
How could he discuss the same scripture, John 1335,
in a way that would be informative to an audience of fellow believers?
Here, Jesus said that love would identify His true disciples.
Did you notice the setting for Jesus' discussion recorded here at John chapter 13?
Jesus had just instituted the Lord's evening meal.
He knew that He had very little time left before His arrest and execution.
The matter of His own integrity was weighing heavily on His mind.
But it was so important to Jesus that His disciples loved one another,
that He included it in His parting words to them.
At the time, they didn't know it, but the one another would come to include
not just fellow Jews but Samaritans and Gentiles too.
What were some obstacles in the first century that Christians needed to overcome?
How can their example help us?
Even though the speaker was discussing a well-known truth,
he made it informative to his audience by including some historical context
that his listeners may not have known or remembered,
he chose a fresh perspective.
When preparing to teach well-known Bible truths,
how can we come up with a fresh perspective?
Think about the subject and do research.
As we prepare, we can ask questions such as,
who, what, when, where, why, and how.
And then we can answer some of those questions in our presentation.
Perhaps we could include less familiar facts or current events.
However, it's not enough simply to present interesting information
that may not be well known by your listeners.
We must also explain how the information can help them in their daily life.
That requires being specific.
Perhaps we can consider some realistic situations
and then outline how to apply the information.
Let's watch a publisher doing this on a Bible study
when discussing with his student the picture and caption
on page 219 of the Remain in God's Love Book.
Look at the illustration on page 219.
What does a caption say?
Reliant Jehovah when you are sick.
Yes, rely on Jehovah.
What's that mean?
Let's say you were diagnosed with a serious illness.
How could you rely on Jehovah?
Well, the book mentions that some treatments involve spiritism.
Even if I was desperate, I wouldn't choose them because they're wrong.
Good.
What are some other ways to rely on Jehovah when we're sick?
Prayer.
Yeah, that's very important.
How would that help you if you were sick?
The teacher took a general statement.
Reliant Jehovah when you are sick and helped a student to see
how it relates to him personally.
If we present information that is informative to our audience,
we'll stimulate their thinking and teach them something worthwhile.